docs: use proper documentation infra (#858)
grafana/grafana-image-renderer: docs/sources/troubleshooting.md

---
aliases:
  - ../../image-rendering/troubleshooting/
description: Image rendering troubleshooting
keywords:
  - grafana
  - image
  - rendering
  - plugin
  - troubleshooting
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Troubleshooting
title: Troubleshoot image rendering
weight: 200
---

# Troubleshooting

This section is dedicated to answering some of our more common questions. These

> are helpful for self-managed users of Grafana users; they are not particularly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are helpful for self-managed Grafana users; they are not particularly
```

useful for Grafana Cloud users, as we manage all this stuff for you.

<!-- vale Grafana.GoogleFirstPerson = NO -->

## What options do I even have?

See `docker run --rm grafana/grafana-image-renderer:latest server --help`.

> Many options you see listed in this repository have additional options you can

Reviewer: Nice, I like it!

> use to tweak the exact behaviour more to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use to tweak the exact behavior more to your needs.
```

This should generally be the first step in troubleshooting when you believe you
need to change some configuration option.

> ## How do I use the configuration file?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to use the configuration file
```

Write a JSON or YAML configuration file named either `config.json`,
`config.yaml`, or `config.yml` in the current working directory of the service.

> The default directory is `/home/nonroot/`. You can write YAML in the `.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default directory is `/home/nonroot/`. 

You can write YAML in the `.json` file. All JSON is valid YAML, so we parse it all as YAML.
Kubernetes' own YAML format, KYAML, is also valid.
```

file: all JSON is valid YAML, so we parse all as YAML. Kubernetes' own YAML

> format (KYAML) is valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## How do I monitor this service?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to monitor this service
```

Reviewer: Similar to the last section, but I do like "Monitor this service" about equally as the "how to " option here

You can monitor the service via Prometheus or
[Mimir](https://grafana.com/oss/mimir) and any OpenTelemetry-compatible Tracing

> backend (like [Grafana Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo)). We recommend you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
backend, such as [Grafana Tempo](https://grafana.com/oss/tempo). We recommend you
```

set up both:

- Point your metrics scraper to `/metrics` on the HTTP port (default `:8081`).
- Point the service (`--tracing.endpoint`) to your tracing backend.

You can find an [example dashboard here](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/12203-grafana-image-renderer/).

> ## I need to change the address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change the address
```

See `--server.addr`. If no specific address is given, it listens on all
interfaces. The syntax to only change port is `:8081` (or any other port
number).

> ## I want to use multiple authentication tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use multiple authentication tokens
```

Specify the option multiple times, for example: `--server.auth-token token1
--server.auth-token token2`.

If you use JSON or YAML, you can use a list:

```yaml
server:
  auth-token:

>     - token1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - <token1>
```

    - token2
```

For environment variables, use a comma-separated list.

## I want to change the logging level

You can set the level with `--log.level`. Valid values are `debug`, `info`,
`warn`, and `error`. `debug` is _very_ verbose. Production deployments should
usually use `info` or `warn`.

## I need to use TLS

You can set this up with `--server.certificate-file`, `--server.key-file`, and

> optionally, `--server.min-tls-version`. mTLS is not supported at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optionally, `--server.min-tls-version` options. mTLS is not supported at this time.
```

## My tracing needs mTLS

You can set this up with `--tracing.trusted-certificate`,
`--tracing.client-certificate`, and `--tracing.client-key`.

> ## I need to change the browser path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change the browser path
```

> You can use any browser binary with `--browser.path`. The browser must support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any browser binary with the `--browser.path` option. The browser must support
```

the Chrome DevTools Protocol, limiting your choices somewhat. This works fine
with Chromium, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Brave, and other similar browsers
based on Chromium.

We only officially support Chromium; if you (or we) cannot replicate your bug
with it, it may be not be prioritised or closed without a fix.

## I have a GPU I want to use

Pass `--browser.gpu`. This may need additional configuration depending on your
environment.

## I want custom flags for my browser

Pass `--browser.flag`. You can pass this multiple times. The `--` prefix of
flags is optional. If your flag has a value, use `${flag}=${value}`.

## I want to enable the Chrome sandbox

Pass in `--browser.sandbox`. This is not supported in all environments.

## I want to use Linux namespaces for better isolation

> Pass in `--browser.namespaced`. This is unsupported; if you want to report a

Reviewer: I'm a little iffy on giving guidance for explicitly unsupported things and letting people discover it themselves by browsing the list of options themselves. If there are a fair amount of people using it to our knowledge we can maybe tweak this using admonitions to make it super clear and not just with inline text.

bug, disable this first. This requires Linux.

> ## I want to change the default timezone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Change the default time zone
```

> Pass in `--browser.timezone` with an IANA timezone name, for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `--browser.timezone` option with an IANA time zone name, for example
```

`America/Los_Angeles` or `Europe/Berlin`. Note that requests can also set this.

> ## I want to add a header to all requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a header to all requests
```

Pass in `--browser.header`. Note that this may break with CORS.

> ## I want to pass my trace through to the browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pass a trace through to the browser
```

> This is done by default. All requests also get a `Traceparent` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This occurs by default. All requests also get a `Traceparent` header.
```

> ## I get an incomplete page, or all requests time out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understand incomplete pages or all requests timing out
```

> The browser waits for the web page to become ready. This is done by waiting for

Reviewer: The second sentence here is pretty heavy on passive voice in the beginning. Maybe we could rephrase to something like "This happens when ..." or "This requires .." or something similar?

all of the following to complete or time out:

- Scrolls all the web-ports (that is, to load the entire page).

>   - Every scroll waits `--browser.scroll-wait` (default 50ms) afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Every scroll waits the time declared by the `--browser.scroll-wait` option, 50ms by default, afterwards.
```

> - Wait `--browser.readiness.prior-wait` (default 1s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The browser waits for the duration declared by the `--browser.readiness.prior-wait` option, 1 second by default.
```

- The entire following sequence times out after `--browser.readiness.timeout` (default 30s):

>   - Repeat the checks every `--browser.readiness.interval` (default 100ms).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Repeat the checks per duration declared by the `--browser.readiness.interval` option, 100ms by default.
```

>   - Wait for all Grafana queries to complete, unless `--browser.readiness.disable-query-wait`. This requires Scenes to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The browser waits for all Grafana queries to complete, unless you use the `--browser.readiness.disable-query-wait` option. This option requires Scenes to be enabled.
```

    Times out after `--browser.readiness.give-up-on-all-queries` (default 0s, meaning disabled).

>     The first query must happen within `--browser.readiness.give-up-on-first-query` (default 3s), otherwise we ignore the query check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The first query must happen within the duration declared by the `--browser.readiness.give-up-on-first-query` option, 3 seconds by default, otherwise the service ignores the query check.
```

  - Wait for all network requests to complete, unless `--browser.readiness.disable-network-wait`.

>     Times out after `--browser.readiness.network-idle-timeout` (default 0s, meaning disabled).

Reviewer: what is timing out here? (I'd also add similar wording around the option as I've suggested elsewhere)

>   - Wait for the webpage DOM to stabilise, unless `--browser.readiness.disable-dom-hashcode-wait`.

Reviewer: what is waiting here? I've been assuming the browser but I could be off base 🥲

>     Times out after `--browser.readiness.dom-hashcode-timeout` (default 0s, meaning disabled).

Reviewer: what is timing out?

> ## Go eats up all the memory in my container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Go eats up all the memory in the container
```

> Set `GOMEMLIMIT` to a lower value than your container limit, such as `1GiB`. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `GOMEMLIMIT` environment variable to a lower value than your container limit.
```

> should not aim for the `GOMEMLIMIT` to match the container's limit: Chromium

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chromium also needs free memory, so you shouldn't set `GOMEMLIMIT` to match the container's limit.
```

needs free memory on top. We recommend 1 GiB of `GOMEMLIMIT` per 8 GiB of

> container memory limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## You do not support an architecture I use

> Sorry about that. Open an issue, or compile it yourself. See the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your architecture isn't natively supported, you can open an issue or compile it yourself. See the
```

[GitHub repository][github] for instructions.

[github]: https://github.com/grafana/grafana-image-renderer

> ## I'm air-gapped. How do I use this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the image renderer service in an air-gapped environment
```

> You need to import the Docker image via a USB stick or similar. If you are a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the image renderer in an air-gapped environment, you must import the Docker image using a USB stick or similar. If you are a
```

Grafana Enterprise customer, consider contacting Grafana Support.

You can also use the binary releases. See the instructions on [the setup
page](./_index.md) for more details.

## My Grafana isn't in Docker

You can use [host
networking](https://docs.docker.com/engine/network/tutorials/host/) instead,
or the binary releases.

## I use Windows and do not want Docker

> You can download the Windows binaries from the GitHub Release. As an example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download the Windows binaries from the GitHub Release. For example,
```

> this is how you run it with Brave on an ARM64 Windows host:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use the image renderer service with the Brave browser on an ARM64 Windows host, run:
```

```powershell
.\grafana-image-renderer-windows-arm64.exe server --browser.path "C:\Program Files\BraveSoftware\Brave-Browser\Application\brave.exe"
```

> The browser must be installed separately. The browser must be a Chromium-based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser must be installed separately and be a Chromium-based
```

browser.

## I use my own CA certificates, how do I make Chromium accept them?

This is often identified by seeing `net::ERR_CERT_AUTHORITY_INVALID` errors from

> Chromium in the logs (may require debug logging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chromium in the logs. Finding these errors might require debug logging.
```

> ### Linux (non-containerised)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Non-containerized Linux
```

For Linux (that is, non-containerised), you need `nss` tools (`libnss3-tools` on

> Debian), and knowing the `$HOME` directory of the user that runs the service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debian), and you kneed to know the `$HOME` directory of the user that runs the service
```

(often `grafana`):

```shell
certutil -d sql:"$HOME"/.pki/nssdb -A -n internal-root-ca -t C -i /path/to/internal-root-ca-here.crt.pem
```

> You may also require other tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might also need other tooling.
```

but to your global store:

```powershell
certutil –addstore "Root" <path>/internal-root-ca-here.crt.pem
```

### Container

Perhaps the easiest way is to bake the CA certificate into your own Docker
image, based on the official one:

```dockerfile
# Consider using a pinned version.
FROM grafana/grafana-image-renderer:latest

# Elevate our permissions to access system resources.
USER root

RUN mkdir -p /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/
# Convert from .pem to .crt
RUN openssl x509 -inform PEM -in rootCA.pem -out /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/rootCA.crt

# Regenerate the CA certificates in the container.
RUN update-ca-certificates --fresh

# Reassume the nonroot user for the service execution.
USER nonroot
# Note: for Kubernetes, OpenShift, and other setups, this may need a numeric ID. See the upstream Dockerfile for which UID to use.

# Some CA certificates also need to explicitly be included in the user's network security services database.
RUN mkdir -p /home/nonroot/.pki/nssdb
RUN certutil -d sql:/home/nonroot/.pki/nssdb -A -n internal-root-ca -t C -i /usr/local/share/ca-certificates/rootCA.crt
```

## My panels are squished in the PDF export

> You have likely configured Grafana to use the old PDF rendering engine by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Grafana is likely using the old PDF rendering engine by
```

---
aliases:
  - ../../image-rendering/troubleshooting/
description: Image rendering troubleshooting
keywords:
  - grafana
  - image
  - rendering
  - plugin
  - troubleshooting
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Troubleshooting
title: Troubleshoot image rendering
weight: 200
---

> # Troubleshooting

Reviewer: I think generally we are moving away from "troubleshooting" docs wise and towards scenario-based guidance for the same sort of stuff. I know this is what this doc was called already so there's no action item - I will probably go over our scenarios work (started after the product offsite) and see how I can incorporate it here after these are published 😄

This section is dedicated to answering some of our more common questions. These

> are targeted at users of Grafana on their own premises; they are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are helpful for self-managed Grafana users; they are not
```
